We will easily prevail.
We're already
substantially ahead of our time
projections, but whatever the time is,
it's okay. Whatever it takes.
President Trump speaking at the White
House as the fallout from the conflict
in Iran spreads across the Middle East.
You're watching the China Show. I'm
Yvonne Man with David Ingles. Good
morning. We're counting down to the open
of markets in greater China. Let's have
a look at the top stories today.
President Trump refusing to put a fixed
timeline or even rule out boots on the
ground while his defense secretary Pete
Hegseth rejects the idea of fighting
into an endless war. Natural gas prices
surging to the highest in years as
Iranian drone attacks force Qatar to
halt production of the world's largest
LNG export facility. Chinese stocks
meanwhile set to bounce higher after a
drop on Monday. Now, Qatar among the
Gulf states lobbying US allies to
persuade Trump to keep the conflict
short while China also urges Iran to
rethink attacks on its neighbors.
>> Meanwhile, the US mulls capping the
amount of Nvidia hardware Chinese
companies can buy further constraining
the chip maker's efforts to tap the
market.
It's day two of us really still
assessing the market impact from what's
been going on in the Middle East. We
were just talking about that that
shelter-in-place sort of alert that
happened in the embassy in Riyadh. So,
that certainly is the latest when it
comes to that side of things, but you're
hearing about energy assets in the
Middle East getting hit. You're seeing
gas prices surging in Europe, and now
there seems to be a bit of an
inflationary scare among these markets,
too. It It's playing out, right? So, I
think you had a massive move up in the
break-even rates. We're looking at
yields just about globally on the way
up. Uh, there's separately on the
inflation print, also on the story in
the Middle East.
Uh leading the the pop right now in in
the bond markets is Aussie short end
yields, right? Because that's a separate
story that pertains to the, you know,
their willingness and openness to
respond with policy uh to contain
inflation expectations. There's that, of
course, we're hearing, of course,
you know, LNG prices to the upside,
shipments and rates are being quoted uh
more than double uh what you normally
see. So, there is an inflationary impact
that is starting to creep into the
narrative right now. So, it's leading to
bond yields on the way up, and the
interesting here, we just had a look at
this, the the rate first rate cut uh the
next rate cut out of the Fed was pushed
back by about a meeting from, I think it
was July before the weekend, we're now
looking at September on that.
>> Yeah, if you're talking about elevated
energy prices for, you know, who knows
when, it certainly is going to make it
much harder for central banks to cut
rates, right? Especially the Fed. And
and the Asia impact to all of this is
quite interesting as well, given the
fact that they do import a lot of this
LNG from the Middle East. I think it's
roughly about a quarter. So, you know,
we're it seems like traders, you know,
you're seeing them really kind of
scrambled to look for sort of
alternative cargoes here right now. And
what this means, how long this sort of
disruption could last. Uh we're going to
have shipping uh guests coming up to
talk a little more about all the
disruptions that they're seeing across
the board. We've also had some
conflicting messages out of Washington
about really how long the war with Iran
might last.
We have the strongest and most powerful
by far
military in the world,
and we will easily prevail.
We're already
substantially ahead of our time
projections, but whatever the time is,
it's okay, whatever it takes.
Our ambitions are not utopian.
They are realistic. This is not Iraq.
This is not endless.
Our generation knows better, and so does
this president. This operation is a
clear, devastating, decisive mission.
Yeah, so the conflict is the main
artery right now when you look at
markets. The Brent this is coming
online. We're better by about 1 and
1/2%. 1.2
on in dollar terms to the upside.
Obviously, the entire energy complex is
moving to the upside because this now
has moved into as Ivana's pointing out
gas and Qatar in the mix here. Very
quickly, have a look at where we are as
far as the dollar is concerned. The twos
and tens we talked about this massive
melt up in yield. It's not just there.
We're looking at across the region with
Oz short and yields higher by by double
double digit basis points today. We're
looking at a US 10 giving back a little
bit right now or the US two that rather.
In case you missed that stat we just
mentioned earlier on. So, the next rate
cut out of the Fed has been pushed back
by a full meeting to now September is
being priced as the next one. Fully
priced as the next one. Equity markets,
interesting story here because you do
have of course broader risk aversion
still
as the prevailing theme across these
markets. Asia's down 9/10 of 1%. Europe
got absolutely clobbered yesterday. So,
we're tracking of course futures there.
Within the space that Korea's catching
down. Separately, there's an Nvidia
story that's showing up in some pockets
of the Japanese equity market. And
China's actually looking to open better
relatively speaking compared to what
we're seeing across the region. In fact,
A50 futures are coming online. Looking
at Shanghai oil prices. Wow, okay. There
we go. 11% to the upside on Shanghai
crude. A50 futures are pointing
to the upside and we're looking at
dollar China. Yes, that's correct. We're
now trading at 690. We're back to 690 on
the exchange rate there. Yep, okay. We
are just tracking some lines that are
crossing here with J.D. Vance, the Vice
President of the US,
has been making comments to Fox News.
And maybe talk a little bit more about
the rationale and then maybe the timing
of why the US and Israel decide to
strike on Iran. Uh and he says, you
know, Trump wanted to make sure that
Iran never had a nuclear weapon. Uh
there has been a lot of talk of whether,
you know, they were striking at a moment
of weakness for Iran or was this really
about this nuclear capabilities uh that
needed or there was a
a move to for necessity to kind of uh
strike uh the republic. But certainly
they're talking about the US has a lot
of capacity in Iran. That's according to
J.D. Vance here this morning. Let's get
the latest now with Derek Wallbank. He
is our Bloomberg senior editor. Uh
obviously we're we're continuing to hear
maybe that there could be more
explosions or, you know, alerts at least
uh with the coming out with the US
embassy in Riyadh as well. But just get
us up to speed on what's the latest,
Derek.
Yeah, Yvonne. We're we're currently it's
about uh 5:00 in the morning in uh in in
Dubai. And so right across the Middle
East we're uh just before sunrise and
we're still hearing reports of uh
activity going on throughout the night
uh over over in that part of the world.
You're talking about uh
you know, explosions and trying to
figure out sort of where things are
going in a in a lot of kind of uh
people just not sure um as as we're
still in the night hours. Uh the sun is
going to come up fairly shortly. Uh
there'll be assessments of damage and
and and things of that nature. It does
appear according to Saudi defense
ministry um that there
uh was a an attack by a pair of drones
on the uh US embassy in Riyadh. Um
they're they're suggesting minor damage
there. Still waiting on assessments
there. But you're you're seeing from the
White House in the American day uh and
and from the State Department a uh words
committing to do what's necessary. Kind
of trying to put a little bit of a
limited time frame on the overall thing.
Not trying to signal that there's any uh
that there's any desire to be in a
protracted war conflict. Um but at the
same point pledging to do whatever it
takes, uh you know, it in in terms of
this operation.
Uh Derek, we're just uh just to mark
more of these lines coming through out
of the US uh
vice president here talking about um how
Donald Trump, President Trump has
clearly defined what he wants uh to
accomplish. Uh what question marks from
Well, has he, I think, is What have you
seen in as far as his Has he spelled out
the objective here apart from obviously
the nuclear
uh the nuclear issue that Ivanka has
pointed out? Do we understand why we're
here in the situation? Because that goes
in some way to seeing where the possible
off-ramp might be, Derek.
Yeah, we've heard a number of comments
from the White House and senior
administration officials uh during the
day uh in in the American day. And And
there there have been a varied range of
things. Let me be really clear. Uh a
varied range of things. Uh the White
House has said that the goal here is to
degrade Iran's capabilities. Um Trump
has said for a long time that the US did
uh do so with the nuclear program with
prior strikes, um but there was some
concern uh they were saying about its
capacity to go. We heard some
administration officials uh talking
about the idea that uh they believe that
uh potentially Israel was going to act
regardless. And if that happened, um
then the US was going to have to
uh to defend itself because Iran was
going to sort of come back at the United
States. That was one of the arguments
that Marco Rubio put forward. I will say
Democrats generally in the United States
um have have been very dismissive of a
lot of these uh
justifications, saying that there's not
a justification. Democrats are going to
look to force a vote uh on uh war
authorization uh later this week. Um
there does not necessarily look like
they're going to have the votes to be
able to to stop this in any sort of way.
Um but going to try and put people on
the record and initial polls that we're
seeing out of the United States are
suggesting some widespread skepticism
here. Remember Donald Trump ran
for office as somebody who wanted to
limit the number of US entanglements
abroad and certainly this is a a
full-scale, you know, move forward a
very, very large
military operation.
So so there's a lot of you know, there's
a lot of questions. There's a lot of
sort of administration as I say
in
an election year a lot of skepticism
from the party opposite.
Derek, thank you. Derek Wallbank, our
senior editor there with the latest on
the actual conflict front. Lots of
things are happening. My screens are
split between energy prices and energy
monitor and inflation headlines, monitor
headlines, equity markets. So we're
looking at most of these angles and it's
hard to really keep up. Um in case you
missed the move overnight
uh that massive move in energy prices
over in Europe, right? We're not talking
just low double digit. We're talking 40,
50%
in many cases. It's now graduated the
conversation into gas uh with Qatar now
involved. In fact, net gas prices
surging there after Qatar energy shut
its LNG production hub there following
attacks on its Ras
uh uh Laffan complex. Iranian attacks,
of course, have impacted other
uh energy assets also in the region. To
help us get us up to speed to on that
front, Stephen Sapshinsky, who leads our
Asia energy coverage, joins us from from
Singapore. Stephen, yeah, talk to us
about the gas angle now. Where are we?
Yeah, I mean I I think I I just want to
kind of take a step back. I've been
covering LNG, looking at the market for
about 15 years and I've never I've such
a large outage um in my career. I've
talked to other traders, this is likely
the largest LNG shutdown, unplanned
outage in the history of the industry
that spans over 50 years. The Ras Laffan
complex provides 20% of global LNG
supply. And to put that into context,
you know, there Qatar is the second
biggest supplier of LNG on Earth, just
behind the United States. So, without
that supply, you're obviously going to
see an increase in prices. And now the
focus is, how long is this facility
offline? It has 14 production trains. It
has staffs of thousands. Can they bring
it back online quickly if there is some
sort of peace deal? Is the facility
damaged? That's unknown because there
was an Iranian drone attack, they didn't
give very many other details. And also,
the last thing is, is the Strait of
Hormuz also an issue going forward
because LNG traffic through the Strait
of Hormuz shut essentially since
Saturday. Not a single ship has gone
either way due to war risk, insurance
issues.
Everyone is is scrambling and the
biggest buyer of Qatari LNG is Asia. 4/5
of all LNG that comes out of Qatar
reaches customers in China, India, South
Korea, Taiwan, Pakistan for example, 99%
of its LNG imports come from Qatar. So,
suddenly we're seeing a situation where
if this lasts weeks, months, you're
going to see an energy crisis
in the developing world. You're going to
see higher prices in the developed world
because they're going to be vying and
outbidding each other to get the LNG
that's on the water, that limited spare
capacity that's available. And you're
also facing gas shortages in large
swaths of industries and maybe in worst
case scenarios, households.
So, this is a big deal.
It It really is. Um,
I know you've been covering LNG for for
for a very long time, Stephen. Tell us a
bit more about those alternative
uh cargoes. I mean, are
are there Is there enough capacity
outside of Qatar, for example, in the
Middle East to offset what what you've
been laying out?
There is not enough capacity outside of
Qatar to offset 20% of the global
market. Unlike the oil market, which has
OPEC plus, they have some spare
capacity, they can ramp it back up. The
gas market doesn't work at like that.
Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, they
shut down pipeline gas supplies to to to
Europe, the gas market, the LNG market
specifically, has been running all out.
So, every facility that exports LNG
essentially has been running at full
capacity. There are some caveats, but
that's basically where it is. Um, where
are people going to be fighting for LNG?
It's going to be American LNG. In fact,
what's pretty funny about all of this is
that US LNG might be the big winner. Um,
the US is the really the only country
right now that's meaningfully ramping up
its output by building new facilities.
And it is flexible supply, which means
where the US is located, the LNG can go
to Europe or it can go to Asia. And so,
if there's a price war, suddenly people
are bidding up bidding up that American
LNG.
And And the winner ultimately are
American LNG exporters. So, it's, you
know, you take a step back and you look
at the situation which the United States
caused um in the region,
one of the big benefactors is American
LNG producers, and they're one of the
biggest segments of the economy.
Stephen, it's great to have you. Stephen
Septinski there, the perfect guy to talk
about what impact we're seeing across
these LNG markets here this morning. Uh,
taking a look at what comes to your
greater China agenda, what to watch here
today. Obviously, we're still watching
this kind of onshore market. We just had
Goldman Sachs's Tim Mo saying, "This
might be the place to be." Uh, to really
kind of uh shield yourself from all the
volatility that we're seeing externally
here. Obviously, we've been seeing what
happened with HS check, uh continue to
see that sort of down drift there at
that 5,000 level. We talked about the
correction that we saw when it comes to
H-shares yesterday, that 10% drop uh
from October 2nd level. So, certainly
that's one thing to watch. Southbound
net flows, it's interesting. We did
actually see Mainland buyers come
through and buy on the dip here. So,
that could be a telling signal there,
but maybe uh we could be seeing a bit
more of that change. Uh CNY as well,
quite a bit of weakening in the
currency, right? We We're actually back
up to 690 levels. We'll see what the fix
brings us here, but yes, uh there also
is that CPCC briefing. Let's not forget
what's happening in Beijing, too. We do
have, in fact, that fix right now coming
up. It's 6.9088 against the US dollar.
So, it is a 690
handle as far as the fix is concerned.
We'll see what CNY, of course, onshore
trades in about 15 minutes or so. Uh
just on some sectors we're tracking,
defense for very obvious reasons, chips
following the sell-off yesterday, energy
and materials given the continued upward
pressure. We'll see that I'll even
include precious metals, right, given
where gold is currently. Couple of
stocks to watch, Xiaomi on the
downgrades, Baba being added to the
Goldman conviction list, and also
Minimax given, of course, that revenue
guidance coming through out of the
company. Minimax and friends, friends
meaning, of course, peers in the
industry. Yeah, you know, we'll see if
we'll see a big move in the stock just
given the numbers have come out which
are quite substantial here as well. Uh
coming up though, we're going to speak
with CSIS director Mona Yacoubian
joining us to explain why the strikes on
Iran may prove to be a costly gamble by
the US. Futures are pointing slightly to
the upside here today. We're up about
half of 1%. This is the China show.
We would love for there to be an Iran
that's not governed by radical Shia
clerics. We would love to see this
regime be replaced. The objective of
this mission is to make sure they don't
have these weapons that can threaten us
and our allies in the region. That's why
we're doing what we're doing now, and
while we would love to see a new regime,
the bottom line is no matter who governs
that country a year from now, they're
not going to have these ballistic
missiles, and they're not going to have
these drones to threaten us.
US Secretary of State Marco Rubio there
outlining the administration's reasons
for attacking Iran. Joining us now from
Maryland, let's bring in Mona Yacoubian,
director and senior advisor of the
Middle East program at the CSIS. Mona,
it's great to have you on the program.
You just heard from Marco Rubio there on
really what the rationale was for the US
and Israel to strike Iran. Does that
seem justified in your eyes?
I think there's still a very disturbing
lack of clarity as to the rationale. I
mean, we've heard numerous
reasons raised from Iran's nuclear and
ballistic missile capabilities to
addressing the leadership in Iran, etc.
None of it really seems to make sense in
terms of available intelligence
reporting, none of which points to an
imminent threat, and therefore, this
really looks more to have been a war of
choice rather than a war of necessity.
And we are seeing play out now, just
entering the fourth day of this
conflict, the multiple downside risks
from energy market hits to US soldiers
being killed in combat to security risks
and American embassies being targeted to
multiple countries now becoming
embroiled in this conflict. We are truly
watching a region-wide
conflagration unfold before our eyes.
So Mona, among the many risks, what do
you think is most pertinent at the
moment? If I know that's an almost
impossible question to isolate that, but
where do I need to be looking?
Well, I think the energy markets are in
particular significant given this part
of the world's crucial role in both oil
and gas markets. And your analyst that
was on before me was laying down these
historic jumps in gas prices. I think
the problem is we don't know the
duration of this conflict, obviously.
And frankly, it's very hard to imagine
that this is going to be a replay of the
12-day war that we saw this past June.
This is far more complex in involves far
many more countries. And of course, with
the assassination of the supreme leader
and questions about who's even in charge
in Iran. And what's Iran's risk
tolerance? I would argue Iran's risk
tolerance is very high because they are
facing existential threats. And so, if
we are watching something that could
last for weeks and maybe even months,
that is going to have enormous
reverberations across global energy and
shipping markets. And of course, we also
have to look at lives that are at risk
across the region.
Yeah, I mean, Mona, I want to pick up on
that. This now involves many other
parties. Might be a dumb question, I
don't know. I don't have the answer. Why
is Iran bombing
its neighbors? So, I get why I get why
they would target places with US bases.
But Dubai, for example, and how does
that then affect those regional powers
in their response to Iran?
I mean, I think there are two ways to
look at it. You're absolutely right,
David. I mean, on the face of it,
they've managed to galvanize these Gulf
countries, frankly, against Iran. Iran
is now completely alone. These were
countries that were advocating against
conflict against with Iran.
And so, in a way, it does look sort of
foolhardy foolhardy and hard to
understand. On the other hand, if for
Iran the stakes are existential.
Then, at this point, I think they are
making a gamble that they're going to
race up the escalation ladder and impose
higher costs and sort of in a way invite
a prolonged conflict. And and that's
exactly what they're doing.
Perhaps with the calculation that
ultimately, especially these
energy-producing Gulf countries are
going to really push hard on the United
States to find an off-ramp to
de-escalate this conflict because of the
disruption that that it is causing. So,
in a way, Iran is taking a sort of an
asymmetric approach to this.
Um we've been talking about a lot about
the wide the the risk of a a more wider
regional war. I'm just wondering in
terms of the the Iran proxies, right?
The the Houthis, the Hezbollah's.
You know, does Iran have a Can they
maintain control of some of these groups
here right now? Or is there actually a
chance that they could actually
mobilize?
Well, it's really interesting, Yvonne. I
mean, we just saw in the last 24 hours
among the different types of escalation
that we've witnessed is the more
intensive use of Iran's proxies. We see
this most notably in Lebanon, where
Hezbollah, which frankly is under
greater Iranian influence than it's ever
been, undertook rocket attacks against
Israel. Frankly,
relatively weak rocket attacks. They
didn't cause any damage. But, this has
now brought an onslaught, an offensive
by Israel against Lebanon.
And so, we'll have to see how that how
that evolves. I think the key proxy that
has yet to really raise its head again
are the Houthis. And that will be
significant if the Houthis choose to get
involved. Should they seek to restart
attacks on shipping in the Red Sea
to snarl the Bab el-Mandeb, another
critical choke point in the area, then I
think we could see the disruptions that
we're already watching unfold grow
exponentially. And this could have an
enormous impact not only on the region,
but globally.
Mona, just quickly, if you could, where
does this leave the nuclear assets or
the ability for it to to to specify the
ability of of Iran to enrich
to a certain level, and do we circle
back to a negotiating table at some
point here on those?
Well, David, I mean, there were already
questions as to whether or not Iran had
started to move back toward restarting
its nuclear program. The program, the
the facilities certainly sustained
significant damage in the US and Israeli
this past summer. And so, there was no
suggestion that Iran's ability to begin
enriching uranium again was imminent.
Perhaps they were looking to restart or
start to repair those facilities.
As as some of the imagery is showing,
the US has gone back and hit some of
these sites again, the US and Israel, I
should say. And and so, I think Iran's
nuclear capabilities remain, you know,
dramatically curtailed.
Mona, we've got to leave it there. Mona
Yacoubian there, director and senior
advisor of the Middle East program at
CSIS. Particularly your pre-market here
right now, and we are seeing a little
bit upside when it comes to Hong Kong
markets here today. Keep in mind, we're
watching Minimax there after we talked
about their results.
Disclosed a little bit token demand has
grown rapidly, according to JP Morgan.
There you go, shares up 10%.
>> We think that there are a lot of
A-share specific benefits right now.
Some of the modeling that we've done
shows that the exposure that the
A-shares get from this kind of sector
weighting basis to the themes that are
likely to be sized in the 15th 5-year
plan, which really lean into advanced
manufacturing, higher technology, and
sort of China's efforts to build its its
its market share externally. A-shares
have a lot of exposure to that in the
current context and the fact that it's
less correlated to what's going on in
terms of global macro and the risk-off
environment that we're seeing, that the
attraction of A-shares right now
actually even stands out further.
Yeah, Tim Alden underscoring the recent
price action and hence where we're
probably going to see these markets open
higher today. Yeah, so yeah, it seems
like markets in some ways are pricing in
that maybe this conflict in Iran might
not last too long, right? Just given
what we've been seeing with the equity
markets. There is already seeing maybe a
bit of dip buying. You can see how
southbound flows have been acting
yesterday already. So, that does lead to
a better backdrop at least here today
where you are seeing onshore markets
still that bright spot here yesterday
also. China actually did better than the
rest of the region. So, is China still
that sort of diversification play? We
are seeing upside of about 1/5 of 1%
here for CSI 300 Shanghai comp just
trading around that 4200 level as well.
Keep in mind though, it has been sort of
this
you know, selling of of bonds, right?
This route that we've seen in treasuries
in the late, but there is now a sense of
a an inflationary scare that could come
out given the disruptions that we're
seeing with energy infrastructure in the
Middle East. What we're seeing with LNG
prices that surged double digits
yesterday in Europe. So, certainly that
is one thing to contend with the crisis
markets. But look at that Shanghai crude
now opening up. There we're seeing 12%
gains once again with Shanghai futures
here this morning. So, we're tracking
still the energy space, not just gas
prices, but oil continues to be quite
elevated here this morning.
Keep in mind though, we're still
watching some of these
uh sort of the tech names as well.
Cabercon is slightly down. CATL,
meanwhile, is actually doing quite well.
We're up some 2% right now
for the lithium supplier and the like
there, then battery maker, the likes.
Taking a look when it comes to Hong
Kong.
Interestingly enough, we are seeing a
bit of rebound there. Maybe the
southbound flows we might see another
day of net buying here. HS Tech seems to
be catching a bit here this morning.
We're up about 7/10 of 1%. Hang Seng
around that 26,000 level. But, it really
was the H-share market, right? Where you
did see the HSCEI
now enter technically into a correction
yesterday. So, we are seeing a little
bit of more upside here a bit across
H-shares here this morning. We're up
about half of 1%. Property is once again
reigniting that rally here once again.
We're watching the tech space very
closely.
And given that what we've seen, right?
Obviously, we're we're focusing on the
likes of Mini Max here today.
Stellar stellar numbers that came
through in their results. So, you know,
JP Morgan was talking about token
demand. So, we'll see how the rest of
that is is looking. But, you're looking
at Xiaomi as well. JP Morgan coming
through and trimming that price target
to $35 here. And they're talking about
the surging price of memory. It is
really going to cut into their margins
here. We take a look at the smartphone
business and really the EV competition
that continues to look hot. But, Alibaba
still looking pretty good here standing
out of
the tech crowd there. We're up about
1.4% there today. Let's take a look at
what it comes to gas stocks, crude
stocks. That certainly has been
something that continues to move up to
the upside here just given what we saw
with gas prices that surged.
As we also talk about chip stocks,
right? So, the whole Nvidia sort of
aspect here.
Sources telling us that the US may be
considering uh caps really on the H200
sales at 75,000 per Chinese buyer. That
seems to be benefiting potentially some
of the national sort of chipmakers out
there like SMIC and Huahong Semi.
They're both up some 1%. ASMPT meanwhile
is up close to 6%. And then there is
this whole story about Nvidia investing
$2 billion in these
data centers uh for optical networking,
right? So we're talking about Luminar
and some of these companies here. Uh so
we're watching of these optical sort of
stocks in China. There you go. They are
also heading higher here this morning.
And we talked about Minima. So they more
than doubled when it comes to their
sales. JP Morgan was talking about token
demand is growing more rapidly than
expected there. So uh there you go.
We're up 5% for Minima. Jupiler also
Jupiler I should say also heading higher
along with the day. Yeah, same names,
right? So you have the AI and chip plays
uh and you have of course the the the
upstream uh energy producers. Everyone's
went through some of the
uh explorers listed here it in Hong
Kong. You have of course a lot of the
big ones uh listed on shore. I mean
hence Shanghai comp 2015 highs, right?
On that benchmark. PetroChina and
Sinopec are leading that charge and that
really dovetails into the broader
uh Middle East story with oil prices
where they are. Shanghai crude up 10%.
It's now become an inflation issue.
Uh is that uh a risk that we should
entertain even further moving forward?
Joining us now to talk us through all
these big and macro themes given what's
going on
is Arthur uh Budagyan, chief EM
strategist at BCA Research. Arthur, good
morning from Hong Kong. Thank you for
joining us, sir.
I I was wondering if you could start off
with the this latest inflation scare
given energy prices, shipping costs, and
that massive pop that we've seen
uh over the weekend. Do I need to be
worried about that?
Not really. I wouldn't be worried about
uh energy shock translating into
inflation. Uh in fact, if anything,
higher energy prices uh might be
restraining global demand, uh global
consumer spending, and a war action in
Middle East might uh depressing business
sentiment. I would be worried about kind
of weaker growth and subsequent
disinflation, not inflation, right now.
Okay. Um that's why you're saying uh
you're still talking anticipating some
sort of global disinflationary shock
and saying that bonds are a buy. Um
where to really is the place to really
park your money in bonds now in fixed
income?
Yeah, I think for next uh let's say 9 a
month or so for remainder of this year,
uh we have to understand what will be
the key driver of a global macro
dynamics. In my opinion, beyond near
term, over next 9 months or so, the key
driver will be dollar. I think US dollar
will be falling uh because less capital
will be flowing into US, and dollar will
be mechanism to force a narrowing of US
current account deficit, which means um
uh shrinking US imports. And shrinking
US imports are going to depress global
manufacturing and global exports, which
is disinflationary for rest of the
world. So, I recommend buying bonds in
uh in Japan, in Europe, in many emerging
market economies that are leveraged to
to global trade, and they will be hit uh
kind of negatively. Plus, their
currencies will be appreciating
meaningfully. So, uh being long domestic
bonds in select EM, in Japan, in in
Korea, in Europe, I think uh the uh best
risk reward going forward.
Um Arthur, uh what about gold? And you
know, gold in the context of
disinflation or really any other reason
why gold is going up.
Um
Uh we have been bullish on the gold for
past 6 years or so, but is the
exponential increase in a gold prices
over past 6 months
make it quite overbought and vulnerable
to correction, especially that gold
purchases have not been driven by
central banks in a past 6 months. It has
been mainly driven by retail or
portfolio investors around the world
including in Asia. So,
when retail investors chasing
kind of asset market, I'm I'm bit
cautious because they can turn and sell
on a
as fast as they been buying. So, I
believe gold, silver, copper
are witnessing very overbought
conditions and are going to correct over
next several months. So, over long-term
I would be bullish gold. I'm bullish
gold. I would be buying gold when it
comes
let's say below 4,500, 4,300, but at
this point I won't be
I won't be chasing gold higher from this
point despite what's happening
geopolitically in Middle East.
That's interesting. Yeah, cuz that's a
thousand year buying level on gold is a
thousand about a thousand bucks below
the current levels. Arthur, we don't
often talk about God on this program,
but talk to us about God here. Get out
of the dollar to your point the other
side to the gold story and what do I
buy?
So,
my key thesis is over past year has been
get out of the dollar. I think dollar
have made a major top a year ago and
dollar has fallen and somewhat oversold
too. It might rebound in near term given
what's happening with oil prices risk
off,
but over next 12 months or so I believe
US dollar will depreciate substantially
versus Asian currencies, versus European
currencies, and some other emerging
market currencies. So,
dollar depreciation, as I said, it's a
deflationary or disinflationary for rest
of the world because dollar will be
depreciating not because US interest
rate will be a lower or falling
relative rest of the world, but US is
running unsustainable current account
deficit, funded it by speculative
portfolio inflow. Buying US stocks
nowadays, in my opinion, it's a
speculative portfolio inflow. And I
think that portfolio inflow is going to
decline, not reverse. Just it will be
flowing into US at slow pace, and less
inflows are going to force dollar down
to correct current account balance
because ultimately capital account
should be equal current account. So,
I think dollar will be weaker and buying
bonds in rest of the world is the best
investment bet for next 9 to 12 months.
Um
it's interesting you said instead of,
you know,
buying the dollar, let's buy the yen
instead. Uh you're very interesting note
this is, "The yen carry trade is a
ticking
time bomb." Uh can you explain that a
little bit, Arthur?
Yes, uh
couple of weeks ago uh where at Bear
Stearns Research published report on yen
carry trade. We took a very
comprehensive view uh how big yen carry
trade is, what is driving it, and how it
can unwind. And conclusion was it's
massive, yen carry trade massive, and
don't look at Japanese interest rate
rising to unwind yen carry trade. In
fact, last three occasion when yen carry
trade unwound, it was due to global risk
asset selling off. So, if global uh risk
asset start selling off, which is my
baseline view, a yen carry trade will
start unwinding and it will reinforce
downside in global risk assets and in in
the process of yen carry trade
unwinding,
Japanese yen is going to rally
substantially versus US dollar. So, I
believe yen has made a bottom. It might
still go kind of sideways in near term,
but if I have a
let's say 9-month outlook, I I would be
buying Japanese yen at this point and
Japanese bond yields uh too because as
Japanese yen rallies a lot, it will be
introducing disinflationary pressures
into Japan and Japanese bond yields will
fall.
Arthur, we're going to leave it there,
but thank you so much for bringing your
views there. Arthur Budagyan, their
chief EM strategist at BCA Research
joining us from Montreal. Thanks for
staying up. Well, coming up, China's
foreign minister calls on Iran to think
of its neighbors when responding to the
US and Israeli strikes. We'll have the
details coming up next. This is
Bloomberg.
Right, let's have a closer look at the
China angle to what's going on in the
Middle East. You have the foreign
minister Wang Yi calling on Iran to pay
attention to the reasonable concerns of
its neighbors as Tehran retaliates
against US and Israeli attacks with
airstrikes and other Gulf nations. Let's
bring in Min Min Lo in Beijing for us,
our China correspondent, to take us
through this. Min Min, so what does this
tell us? Does this tell us anything more
specifically where Beijing stands in
this conflict?
Well, I think it tells us that Beijing
is taking a very pragmatic stance here
because we have the foreign minister
making a call to his Iranian counterpart
yesterday and yes, he repeated the lines
about how China is calling for a
ceasefire, how China is standing by Iran
in safeguarding its sovereignty and
territorial integrity. But he also said,
"Pay attention to the legitimate
concerns of your neighbors." And this
shows you that China is concerned about
stability in the broader region because
if you think about China's trade and
investment flows, its ties with
countries like the UAE, like Saudi
Arabia,
Qatar, for example, and all of these
other Gulf countries far outweighs its
ties with Iran alone. And that's why the
Chinese foreign minister also said, "You
know, pay attention to those concerns
from neighboring countries and also
safeguard the the safety of Chinese
citizens and Chinese institutions in
Iran." Interestingly, we have the
Securities Times, a Chinese state media,
uh putting out an article saying that of
the small numbers of A-listed companies
in Iran, uh most of them have very
limited risks there because they do have
uh diversified global deployment. And
the paper is saying that this disclosure
is important to stabilize market
sentiment at this time.
Yeah, and there was a lot of speculation
that China might be giving some sort of
military sort of support to Iran. I
mean, are there signs really that
Beijing might directly supply Iran with
arms?
The short answer is no. China have not
has not officially sold arms to Iran
since 2005, since the IAEA found that
Iran has violated the non-nuclear
proliferation treaty. But yes, there has
been reports, Reuters for example,
saying that China was close to sealing a
deal with Iran to sell anti-ship
missiles. But this was something that
the Chinese foreign ministry has denied.
And so far in the battlefield, there has
been no evidence of Chinese weapons
being used. Although uh the the sale of
dual-use items often provides uh a cover
for China, right, in the same way it
does in its uh relationship with Russia
when it comes to the Ukraine war as
well. Uh and
so we see China sort of also shifting
the attention here to the US with the
People's Daily yesterday part publishing
a very scathing editorial targeted at
the US saying that the US attacking Iran
at this time during a time of
negotiation really is setting a new
precedent and is very harmful
eroding trust there because it is using
force as leverage as an ultimatum rather
than using it using the negotiation to
actually build consensus. So we see
China sort of moving in here to once
again portray itself as an alternative
sort of power that is upholding
international international norms here,
but it's worth noting that so far
China's support of Iran has remained
largely rhetorical.
All right, Mimen. Thank you. Our China
correspondent Mimen Lo joining us there
from Beijing. Bloomberg Economics has
also been saying that the impact on
China's economy from the war in Iran
looks manageable at this point, but with
a potential mild boost to inflation from
a rise in oil prices. But really what
they're talking about now is the hit
from geopolitics
that might be greater. Here to join us
more is our chief Asia economist Chang
Shu joining us here in the studio. So So
what do you mean by that that the
geopolitics is bigger?
Yeah, so it's far more complicated if we
just purely look at the economic
calculus. Yeah, China will be impacted
negatively given that China is
the biggest importer of oil in the world
and and a large part of the imported oil
come from the Middle East. So So we can
see in the mild case of the conflict not
lasting very long,
inflation may just be pushed up just by
0.2% or so. And even in an extreme case,
it could be, you know, inflation going
up by 0.8%. But But if we look at the
geopolitical context, the calculation is
much more complicated. Um Domestically,
we know
last year the trade
sort of
battle or so war, whatever you call it,
between China and the US, it's largely
perceived by China as a win.
So that bill helped build up
the confidence within
within the country and the
the sort of the narrative for
for East rising and West falling type of
narrative was strengthening. But this
time, yes, and China has taken a
pragmatic approach. China
cast the US as the instability factor,
but then on the other hand, it does show
China
has
limitations in shaping what's happening.
So so in to that extent, that that
really shows the very stark asymmetry
between China's increasing economic
cloud and its constraints in in
projecting
influence in in many other areas.
>> And you you coined it as China's
low-to-no profile in these events,
right? And you mentioned perception
that's important in this case. What what
why is that a real issue here?
Yes, so so they
in this case, and China it has very
limited ability to affect what's
happening on the ground now. And if you
link this together with
what happened in January when the US
seized the former Venezuela
president. So in both cases, those
countries are supposed to be China's
strategic partners and and China really
faces practical limits to
to influence what's happening. So, so
that perception could a dent the sort of
confidence built up over the past year
or so within the country. And the on the
global stage, that might sort of
kind of
make people or make countries sort of
reassess the sort of partnership with
China. So, so so it's complicated. I
think China
rightly has been taking a pragmatic
approach, but but in terms of sort of
perception and power play
context,
the calculation is quite complicated.
>> Yeah, and a bit more cautious as you
say.
It gives you I mean give me there there
are very focused on what happens
domestically. I mean with NBC happening
this week, I'm I'm sure
they would like to focus more on the
economy.
What should we be looking at the most at
the end of this week? Yes,
the
two most important agenda items are
first the budget on the first day on
Thursday.
And secondly, the the five-year plan,
the new five-year plan will be discussed
and approved. In terms of the specific
things we we are looking for for coming
out, I would say the single most
important thing is the growth goal. We
know China in the last couple years set
the goal at 5% and this year
the pressures are quite strong for
coming from provincial governments
goals to for the central government to
lower the national one.
Over half of provinces representing over
half of GDP
have lowered their goals. So, so on the
one hand is sort of pressure for for
national government to to
cut it. On on
hand you also can think oh this is first
year of a new
5-year plan we shouldn't. So so we see
potentially two ways to soften the
targets. One is to still set five but
but use some sort of softer language to
to indicate this is on a best effort
basis and and maybe some sort of
undershoot is possible. So that's
possibility number one. Possibility
number three is a range of 4.5 to 5% or
so. So so and then obviously we need to
watch out um consumption to what extent
China would commit this sort of to
consumption to GDP ratio whether they
give a specific figure. Thank you. Thank
you. Fantastic. There we go. Lots to
look forward to this week. You almost
forget given what's taking place in the
Middle East that there is this massive
domestic
economic exercise taking place
in Beijing. Uh we'll continue the
conversation around China. Of course the
NPC CPPCC by the way begins I believe
today here
with a look at the economic priorities.
They'll be good. Arthur Kroeber joins us
at those times on your screen. Plenty
more ahead.
Right.
Uh just before we get into the second
hour just a look importantly of course
at reopen in Korea and within that we're
looking at the defense related names.
Hanwha Systems of course very much tied
tangibly to what's taking place in
Europe and of course the opposite is
happening across some of these Chinese
names. Plenty more ahead. This is the
China Show.
>> Welcome back to the China show. A look
outside of Hong Kong here today and
yeah, we continue to see a little bit of
a moderate decline here when it comes to
the Hang Seng.
We bounced off some of the session lows
sort of you take a look at that chart
there but yes, HSCEI certainly the one
to watch here given that it did enter
that technical correction yesterday. We
actually have been seeing a bit of a
reversal in some of the Hong Kong sort
of benchmarks here. HS Tech now in
negative territory. We're down about
6/10 of 1% there Dave.
Yeah.
So we are extending after entering a
technical correction and I imagine also
when you look at Hang Seng Tech Index
underperforming still 7/10 of 1% coming
up. So that is sinking deeper into
bear market terrain as we flip the page
just bear with me. I'm looking at
southbound flows to get an indication if
we're getting day three of dip buying
into this market just bear with me for a
moment there but yeah, as things stand
we're down
7/10 of 1% just about across the board
including by the way Shanghai comp and
CSI 300 which were the standout
yesterday also giving up some of the
gains there. We are now looking at
negative flows by the way across the
stock connect just to close that loop.
Japan Korea's coming back online. You
have Taiwan within Japan of course,
there's the sort of cable
literally the wire maker story on the
Nvidia story. We'll talk more about that
in a moment. It's brought risk aversion
as you can see the dollar is continuing
I believe it's strength coming through
all the PBOC came out and
with a I can dollar weakness actually on
the back of stronger fixing
strengthening the fix by the most since
August. There we go. That's the
operative word.
Aussie assets are in focus because this
inflation stories showed up in markets
with bond yields just about across the
world picking up and in Australia
specifically there's some commentary
coming through out of the central bank.
They're talking about how
the option they do have the options in
case they need to
act more family against inflation. So as
you can see we're up double digits in
basis points here as you can see on the
2 and 5 year yield there it is too.
>> Yeah, that's interesting. We've had some
commentary from the likes of you know
likes of Howard Marks saying that don't
let your emotions cloud the judgement on
the war here. We just you don't really
know how long these disruptions will
last. I think that's the big biggest
question among traders here this
morning.
And so really it's it's it's easy to use
your emotions to kind of trade, but
you're not really sure what the
outcome's going to be according to Oak
Tree there. So certainly that's going to
be one thing, right? So don't let your
emotions affect you. That's not going to
be helpful. And then you have the likes
of Jamie Dimon though saying look, there
might be some sort of you know these
inflationary scares that you're seeing
in inflation expectations in the bond
markets here right now
might actually be something that you
need to really concerned with, right? He
talks about inflation might be that sort
of skunk in the party for the US economy
that could emerge out of this whole
thing. Yeah, unless it's a bad smelling
party of course that discussed
would be
the feature not the bug. I mean to the
point you were making right so break
even rates break even yields picked up
the highest I think it was the second
biggest jump with the exception of
October last year in the 2 year break
even. The
the next rate full rate cut that's being
priced in markets has been pushed back
by a meeting from July last week to
September as I speak and a lot of that
comes down to the oil story, right? When
you have energy prices at their levels
currently coming up on your screens it's
now become just more than the oil story.
It's now become a gas story too as you
can see there a 1.3% to
the upside. Right. Now we've also heard
from Saudi Arabia's Prince Turki Al
Faisal here calling the attack on Aramco
facilities an act of provocation coming
through from the Iranians.
This obviously is a provocative step
on the part of the leadership in Iran to
try to elicit a response from the
kingdom
that would then be responded to by them
and it would widen
the conflict not just between the
kingdom and Iran but also between the
whole area
and and Iran.
And just in the latest here we've heard
you know there were some kind of shelter
in place sort of alerts that happened in
the the US Embassy in Riyadh uh just
this morning as well. Uh there's also
been some mixed messages around the
timeline of all this where the US says
the Iran war will not be endless but you
know do you see we're hearing a lot of
views about just that timeline. Let's
bring in Jill Disis as our news desk
managing editor on really how long they
think this disruption can last. I mean
Yvonne when you talk about those
conflicting messages out of the US I
mean really you've got the Defense
Secretary Pete Hegseth um saying that
it's not an endless war but you've got
Donald Trump uh honestly in in some
cases conflicting with himself depending
on you know what time of day you really
catch him at. I mean he's said um
anything from you know he he this could
last four to five weeks the bombardment
campaign to well we've got the capacity
to uh carry on for much longer than
that. It's really really difficult to
say when it comes uh to exactly how long
this could ultimately go but what we're
looking at right now is a very much
alive situation. As you just mentioned
Yvonne you've got um you know just
recently um you know this this um
campaign it seems um Iran is um
ratcheting things up against Saudi
Arabia the US Embassy there. Um so lots
of action lots of movement still
actually happening here um but really
unclear exactly how long this may end up
going. Do we know more about
you know
the latest I mean you mentioned of
course the Embassy uh that we're trying
to figure out as well. What is the
latest in as far as the conflict is
concerned? Uh we're trying to figure out
why markets are selling off in fact as
as we speak here. Yeah I mean I think at
this point David it's still we're trying
to get a little bit more clarity there.
Again we just have that very basic
information about them. You know, the
the these hits on the US Embassy in
Riyadh. So, obviously still
investigating exactly what's going on
there. We're talking with our teams on
the ground to get more clarity. So, you
know, I'm sure more to come on that
front. But again, as we can see, just a
ton that's actually developing here.
We've got, you know, the United States
telling, you know, Americans, US
civilians all across the Middle East to
to get out. There's unconfirmed of some,
you know, explosions elsewhere. But
again, I think we have to be really
careful with exactly how we sort of, you
know, describe this kind of stuff. So,
really, really zooming in right now on
what's happening in Riyadh. But, you
know, hopefully you know, getting some
more clarity there. Fairly certain. I
think the other thing to really look out
for here is Benjamin Netanyahu is
speaking on Fox News I think
momentarily. So, may have some, you
know, more insight there on sort of the
Israeli perspective and and their
involvement in this campaign. But again,
as we've been discussing, obviously a
lot of very quick-moving developments
here. Well, what do we know about the
Qataris asking US allies
in the background here? Oh, yeah. What
what what's the ask and what is there
any progress there? Yeah, so at this
point you've got Qatar as well as the
UAE trying to, you know, find those
allies and kind of consolidate this idea
of ending this conflict at some point
I'm fairly soon. So, the entire aim of
those kinds of talks is to ultimately
get some kind of a coalition there that
can push the US to end this conflict
sooner rather than later. Of course
though, as we've been talking, you've
got Trump you know, talking you know,
running around on Monday saying that
they've got the capacity to extend this
campaign for beyond that four to five
week window that he originally was
talking about at the beginning of this
week. So, again, it's it's unclear how
successful that may ultimately be. But
there certainly are, you know, some of
those attempts to try to mitigate this
and contain the conflict to a smaller
window as possible. Jill, thank you so
much for getting us up to speed there
with the latest. As we were just having
that conversation, risk assets are
taking a further
leg lower. We're down 3% now on the
Cosby CSI 300
in in mainland China is now down about
1%. We're looking at the energy space
specifically too here on the back of
multiple fronts of whether freight rates
are going up, shipping costs, you're
looking at some several asks being
negotiated as well. There's an insurance
component here as well. I think one of
the things is benchmark tanker rates for
hauling things like gasoline, diesel
from the Persian Gulf to Japan have
surged more than 36%
as the ships steer clear of the Strait
of Hormuz here. The TC5 long-range route
here jumped above the
uh what is 308 word scale world scale
points on Monday. That's a highest in
nearly 2 years here. In time,
the charter terms daily rates climbed to
about $56,000 the highest here since May
of 2024.
>> And we are watching stocks of Cosco
Shipping after the company said it was
evaluating plans for cargo movement in
the Middle East. An advisory says
vessels in the Gulf have been asked to
proceed to safe waters and that ships
destined for the region are asked to
prioritize navigational safety. The
company is also considering contingency
plans for cargo abroad affected vessels.
Okay.
Joining us now to discuss how the
commodity sector has been coping with
these disruptions in the Strait of
Hormuz is Anton Postnikov, CEO at
US-based logistics and consulting firm
The Mercator Group. He joins us out of
Florida today. Anton, good morning from
the Asia Pacific.
Uh
you know, let me just get straight to
it. What are you hearing from the folks
on the ground about what's going on?
What what what's being disrupted the
most from from from your perch?
Sure. At the moment, we're seeing
basically the world waking up today in
in the in the US side to trying to
figure out exactly what's what's
happening in the Gulf, what's happening
with ships that are currently loading or
discharging in the Persian Gulf, and
what's going to be coming up potentially
out of the Houthis and and potentially
for restart in their attacks in the Red
Sea Red Sea and affecting the Suez Suez
Canal. We're seeing
insurance the insurance giants putting
out notices of canceling war risk
policies that cover cover ships entering
the area. And of course, this is having
an effect across the board on on
freight. As you mentioned, what we're
what you're seeing and what what
everyone's seeing in the uh
in the energy markets is also affecting
my world, which is more of the dry bulk
critical resources, mining, and metals
metals sectors. Right.
Mhm.
So, where where do you see the most
disruptions then? Do you think it's
going to be cargo flows? Do you think I
mean, it seems like right now when it
comes to vessel diversions, people are
kind of heading through
you know, the Cape of Good Hope here
this morning. You know,
how are you seeing all these kind of
diversions and how this is all being
mapped out now? Right. And there's no
one answer to that situation, but let me
give you some examples of what we're
seeing. So, on our ocean freight teams
dealing with one ship loading dry bulk
cargo in the Persian Gulf and Saudi port
at the moment, the ship continues to to
load at the moment, but whether or not
she will actually sail and depart the
Persian Gulf and when is a question mark
what the safety situation is going to
be. You have
Iran's Revolutionary Guard saying that
they're going to set ships on fire that
try to transit the Strait of Hormuz. So,
that's not exactly the ideal
navigational situation to say the least,
right? You have ships that are that were
supposed to be going in moving into the
Persian Gulf say with inbound grains or
to load outbound fertilizer cargoes that
are just turning around or dropping
anchor going to ports now and not going
in to discharge their grain cargoes or
load load their outbound shipments of
aluminum or outbound shipments of
fertilizers, right? Again, talking about
the dry dry bulk world, which is my
world. Uh and so we were talking about a
significant disruption here at this
point. Uh when our team is talking to
ship owners about what their what their
decisions are and what their thinking is
for upcoming contract and cargoes. These
are shipments that are already under
contract for a specific time, let's say
later in March.
Right now is a question mark, right?
What's going to happen? Is it going to
be safe to transit? Can they perform?
Can these ship owners perform on these
voyages? Can they get insurance coverage
to cover those? Are these ship owners
going to pull a
declare and and implement a clause in
the contract of carriage, the charter
party, to get out of the shipment due to
war? Is this a war? Is it a declared
war, right? Is it a war as far as
as far as legalities are concerned in
relation to
potential maritime law and maritime
arbitration, right?
I I Anton, I'm glad you brought it up
because
you know, certainly a lot of people will
are scrambling for clarity around
Um not so it might sound trivial at this
point given everything else that's going
on, but you know, how does the insurance
sector come in here in what sense? And I
mean, there's a reason why a lot of the
exceptions are, you know, acts of God
and acts of war, for example. Where is
that conversation now?
Sure, and and certainly not an insurance
expert, so take it for what it's worth,
right? But
in this case, you're talking about
Lloyd's getting the war war risk team at
Lloyd's getting together. The the major
major marine insurance firms put out a
notice uh
uh declaring that uh the war risk war
risk coverage on their policies for
ships are going to be uh going to be
withdrawn as of March 5th. So, that's a
major setback in terms of uh being able
to sail comfortably through the through
this essentially war zone for lack of a
better term at this point. Uh that means
that uh and excuse me, this was also
precipitated by the reinsurance firms
that uh the underlying reinsurance uh
withdrawing their coverage right to the
major insurance insurance carriers. So,
they the ship owners now need to go out
and get new coverage for their ships to
transit through these areas
uh in high-risk areas, of course, right?
So, that they're they're they have
coverage in case the ships are attacked
uh uh sunk uh burned whatever at this
point. So, you're talking about a
significant cost cost jumps.
The uh ship owners will then be passing
along those higher insurance costs, of
course, to the shippers, the charters of
these ships, the cargo interests.
Um how are we seeing just when it comes
to tanker rates this morning, freight
rates and the like? I mean, I I know
we've seen a bit of a spike. Is there
Is there going to be a chance that maybe
we could see even more higher sort of
spikes in prices moving forward?
Sure. And yeah, tanker freight, well,
not my area of expertise. I think uh it
at this point it's a clear
there's a clear sign that this could get
significantly worse, right? If the if
the Iranian uh
uh government and the Iranian
Revolutionary Guard is successful in
attacking and uh damaging, potentially
sinking, more vessels in the Strait of
Hormuz, and there's a complete shutdown,
you know, I think as we've all seen,
everyone uh by at this point over the
past 24 hours has become familiar with
the fact that 20 to 30% of the world's
petroleum and gas flows through that
Strait of Hormuz, right? So, if if there
is a shutdown there, we're going to see
ships caught behind the shutdown
and a significant
significant freight rates on on tankers
on tank on the tanker freight market
across the board globally. Ships are
pulled out of the pulled out of the
market and that there's more urgent
cargoes that need to move from other
parts of the world to to satisfy demands
that are not going to be able to be met
coming out of the out of the Gulf.
Yeah, and and so we're trying to
figure out what the big picture is
whether or not there is an effective not
official closure there and we're piecing
this together through conversations like
this.
What are you hearing from your contacts
in terms of disruptions to either port
activity on the other side? So, we're
talking about the Persian Gulf or the
Gulf of Oman. Any any insights you could
share as far as disruptions there? Yeah,
there have been some delays of ships
loading and discharging currently at
Persian Gulf ports. There have been some
delays port operational delays. No not
seeing on the ships at least that are in
in our
within our teams control. Not seeing
complete shutdowns or abandoning of
cargo operations. So, ports are
operating certainly cautiously labor
labor potentially not showing up in some
some instances at this point, but it's
still too early to tell. But not seeing
complete port shutdowns at this point.
Ships are loading, ships are
discharging. It's whether or not ships
are going to be able to transit out of
the Gulf after they're after they've
completed loading or or discharging.
On the Gulf of Oman on the on the other
side at the at this point have not seen
any significant
impacts, but this is going to be watched
carefully, of course, that starts
getting closer to the area where the
Houthis have
have threatened to restart their
campaign their campaign of attacking
ships going through the the Red Sea,
Suez Canal, and so forth. So, there's
certainly a significant threat threat to
the entire entire region at this point.
Yeah, Anton, I'm sure it's keeping you
busy. Thank you so much for giving us a
bit more insight on what's happening in
in the world of shipping and logistics.
And Han Posner, there, CEO at The
Mercury Group, joining us from Sarasota,
Florida, this evening. We are just
getting those lines, as as Jill
mentioned earlier here, of that
interview with the Israeli Prime
Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, speaking
to Fox News in just the last couple
minutes. And really kind of reiterating
what we've heard from the US in terms of
Pete Hegseth and what he has talked
about, the timing of this war. He says
not going to have a, quote, endless war.
And Netanyahu also saying Iran war is
going to be quick and decisive action.
That's the latest that's coming through
so far.
But, yes, still a lot of questions on
really
how this war is going to end. But, yes,
it seems like, at least from Israel's
side of things, they're hoping this
could be
ending pretty soon. Right.
Just ahead here on shows. Obviously,
this is going to be part of the
conversation remaining, too. One of the
other things that's taking place as
well, it's actually showing up in
small parts of this market is the well,
number one, the Nvidia story, but not
the chip story in China, but this is a
separate Nvidia story. Anyway, we'll
unpack, of course, the the the reported
limits that officials are said to be
mulling
in terms of capping the number of
accelerators the company can sell to one
single Chinese company. The details in
that scoop just ahead.
>> Right. Welcome back. You're watching the
China show. We're looking at and as you
can see on your screen some hefty
declines we're seeing across these names
here.
Uh chip-linked stocks here. That's after
Bloomberg revealed that Nvidia could be
restricting H200 accelerator sales to
mainland China. This would also curtail,
of course, the US tech giants' efforts
to reenter the market, which I believe
the late based on the latest
uh financial uh reports uh coming out of
Nvidia, the assumption is still no China
business. Uh let's bring in Belle Hum
and Isaac to talk us through what we
know about this.
Yeah, it's a little it's a little
curious, actually, I find the reaction
today because this Bloomberg scoop that
we have
uh that essentially they could be capped
on how many sales they can do of H200
chip sales to each Chinese company is
actually more of a benefit to to to
these Chinese names because
uh we were reporting at at the end of
last year when H200 sales were first
green-lit by the Trump administration
that names like Alibaba and ByteDance,
for instance, would have wanted to buy
around 200,000 chips a piece. So, 75,000
is is well under that mark. And just to
be clear as well, it's 75,000 total per
company, so that also includes either
business in China is looking at uh
AMD's equivalent AI processor, for
instance, they can only have 75,000
total. So, it's Nvidia plus AMD in this.
Oh, okay. Yeah, and maybe they're just
getting swept down in this whole kind of
Iran situation. Maybe not because of the
story as well. I mean, how likely do you
think this is going to factor in into
Trump's planned visit to to China? Yeah,
we've had some also part of this scoop
that we had uh from our team earlier
today is likely to be an agenda item or
a key agenda item for Trump when he does
if he does, of course, visit at the end
of this month and and kick off those
meetings with uh President Xi in April,
but uh the the the focus that he wants
essentially is to maybe announce some
deals around this. Uh But of course the
key question still comes back to China's
plans and and we still don't really have
that guidance. If Beijing is also going
to be allowing its companies to to
purchase H200 chips given they also need
to to balance against their own
sovereign build out versus of course
buying this technology from the states.
Uh
Belle, just before we get into the
MiniMax earnings, I just want to mention
to our viewers here. You might have
already seen it. The MSCI Asia Pacific
is selling off in the It is picking up
to the downside here, 2% now set for the
biggest single-day drop in about a month
uh or so with the Korean markets of
course coming back online leading that
to the downside. We'll get more on this
of course later on in a couple of
minutes. But Belle, yeah, talk us
through MiniMax earnings here and the
guidance there.
>> is the first earnings we've actually had
from MiniMax since they listed at the
beginning of the year. So uh good
numbers overall. Uh we we saw a very
strong jump in revenue in 2025, so
around 160%.
Uh so that came in at $79 million. That
was well ahead of what analysts were
thinking as well. You did see their
losses widening, but there are some
technicalities to this. Uh essentially
that was down to the remeasurement of
convertible preferred shares. And so
that's sort of common, that
remeasurement that you see for high-tech
growth companies when they have a rapid
increase in valuation. And indeed uh
their stock's pretty much quadrupled
since the listing in January. So so
they've had to change some some metrics
or some accounting around that. But
essentially lots and lots of demand that
they're seeing globally, so around 70%
of their sales coming from international
markets. And as well a product pipeline
that looks quite solid. So they're
planning to announce the M3 uh in the
second half of the year which will be
their latest model uh release as well.
All right, Belle. Thank you. Annabelle
Droulers there with the latest when it
comes to MiniMax as well. Uh as of
course these Nvidia chips to China.
We're just getting a little bit more
Let's sort of recap some of the market
moves that we've seen, right? Things are
turning sour, Dave. Um as we speak. Uh
and it we thought there was a bit of a
bounce and then, you know, Korea came
back from that holiday and I think it's
just now led to even spreading this
negativity to the likes of Hong Kong, to
the likes of Japan. Japan's down some 2%
here this morning. There is some
concerns on social media about more
military action in the Middle East, so
certainly that is, uh, a cause for
people to actually once again press the
sell button. This is Bloomberg.
Right, just an update here of,
uh, the damage we're seeing across these
markets and yeah, we're extending the
losses. In fact, just about everything
is down with the exception of
one or two markets. Korea's down 3 and
1/2%. US European futures are pointing
to a continued sell-off when those
markets, of course, come online this
Tuesday. Lots more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
1:29 a.m. in Tokyo, Japanese markets are
going on break in just a moment, but
we're taking a look at the Hang Seng
here right now.
Uh, we're flat right now, but Tokyo is
heading to that lunch break, uh, to the
downside where you are seeing risk
aversion spread, uh, back to Tokyo here
this morning. We're down 2% for the
Nikkei 225 as well as the topics here.
Uh, yen is still slightly on, you know,
157 levels as well, so not doing a whole
lot of movement and you're not seeing
that really kind of flight to safety in
the yen uh, since this Iran escalation,
but uh, you are seeing at least when it
comes to JGB yield kind of following the
trend that we've been seeing across
fixed income markets where yields are
ticking higher, uh, given the concerns
around the shocks, uh, in terms of
energy prices, what we could see when it
comes to oil, which continues to be
elevated here this morning. Uh, LNG
markets, uh, that certainly continue to
be elevated what we saw in the European
session yesterday. So, it is Is going to
be some sort of inflationary scare, uh,
that you know bond traders are certainly
thinking about that this morning? Yeah,
it doesn't necessarily need to happen.
The fact that we're talking about it now
is really just adding to the worries out
there in this market and why everyone is
just really a lot more sensitive and
receptive really to to bad news out
there given this is an ongoing
situation. We're trying to verify
some reports of of of explosions and the
like there in a suffice to say
investors are asking questions later and
they're selling they're selling now. So
when you look at the benchmark we're
down about 1.7%
it's it's the big names you can think of
whether that's a Japanese car maker, a
Korean car maker, some of the big tech
plays. The other side though
to the benchmark and despite the fact
that you are getting substantial gains
in defense related names a lot of the
big oil plays are gaining obviously
given what's taking place. The benchmark
is still down about 1.6% and we showed
you earlier on of course what's been
taking place across a European
equity complex with futures on both the
stocks 50
and the DAX including the S&P E-mini
futures are all pointing to an extension
of losses once those cash markets come
come come online later today.
Yeah, let's not forget right? It's not
just the Iran situation that we have to
deal with but we're also talking about
MPC right? China beginning it's most
important annual political meeting
tomorrow with investors seeking clarity
on plans to press ahead with tech
ambitions while reviving a fragile
consumer economy. Let's go to Beijing
now and our China correspondent Mayman
Lo on really Mayman what are some of the
key economic targets we're watching out
for this time?
Yes, so Premier Li Qiang will be deliver
delivering the government work report
where he will outline the achievements
for last year and also the key goals for
next year
for this year rather. So for 2026 the
key items we are looking out for, of
course, is the GDP number, expected to
be about 4.5%
which is slower than last year's around
5% that tells you that the government
may be more tolerant of slower growth in
exchange for higher quality growth. It
also gives us a sense of of the the pace
and scale of stimulus and how that's
going to look like in order to hit that
growth target. Of course, the inflation
target expected to stay at about 2%. We
are currently looking at inflation
hovering just above zero. So, we're
still a long way away from the target.
The budget is going to be important as
well. That narrow budget deficit
expected to be 4% of GDP, which is same
as last year, but the broad deficit,
inclusive of the issuance of bonds,
that's expected to be ramped up. Morgan
Stanley, for example, expecting the
ultra long sovereign special sovereign
bonds to be increased from 1.3 trillion
yuan last year to 1.5 trillion yuan this
year, and that will give the central
government a bit more firepower to
inject into things like consumption
subsidies and other measures to boost
growth. But, what's key to watch this
year, as well, is that the government
will also reveal the 15th five-year
plan, which the delegates will discuss,
but it's largely a rubber stamp
parliament, so they are likely to
approve that plan by the end of the two
sessions. And again, that's going to lay
out the key priorities for the next five
years, including number one, boosting
high-quality growth, and number two,
ensuring tech self-sufficiency, and
number three, boosting domestic demand,
which is one of the hardest things to do
in China's economy right now.
Min Min, thank you so much. Min Min Loh,
our China correspondent. That with that
last point, of course, on boosting
consumption.
Joining us out of New York is Arthur
Kroeber, founder founding partner and
head of research and at financial
services firm
Gavekal. Arthur, good morning from Hong
Kong. It's easy you know, the temptation
is to look at the the growth target and
look at that as perhaps a solution to
most of the economy's issues at the
moment. How are you looking at the prism
of a growth target and the broader
challenges of this economy right now?
Uh yeah, thanks very much. So, I think
the growth target is basically
irrelevant to the problems that are
facing China today.
Uh and the basic reason for this is the
growth target is expressed in real
terms.
And right now, real growth has a
significant component of deflation in
it. And deflation,
uh which is a reflection of these
problems of excess supply, insufficient
demand, and so forth, is the real
problem that they need to be tackling.
And the only way that you can
address that is by targeting something
other than real growth, so nominal
growth or the inflation rate.
And there really isn't any indication, I
don't think, that the government is
moving significantly away from its real
growth target. So, I think basically
what we're expecting,
uh I'm I'm sorry to say, is is more of
the same uh from the Chinese leadership
in the in the current uh planning cycle.
In terms of consumption, this sort of
you know, the rebalancing
the economy away from export-oriented,
away from investment-heavy sort of
economy, uh has been slow going, to say
the least. I mean, in terms of the
consumption side of things, what are you
expecting this time around?
Uh basically the same as what we've seen
over the last couple of years, which is
certain amount of rhetorical support for
this idea that there needs needs to be
more domestic demand, there needs to be
more consumption, but nothing really
serious that changes the fundamental
strategic orientation of the government,
which has been very clear for several
years. Uh they've said their major task
is to
uh
increase the technological capacity of
of the economy, focus on tech-intensive
manufacturing,
um both as a way of stimulating long-run
productivity growth and also insulating
the Chinese economy from US pressure.
And since they're not really changing
that overall strategic orientation, they
can't really offer anything serious on a
on a major shift towards consumer
spending.
Arthur,
any points of
urgency? And
the reason I ask that is the economy
doesn't seem to be
doing extremely bad, but it's also not
doing extremely well. Things are
actually okay.
But I wonder
what specific
urgent fronts you think we should be
paying attention to and whether or not
you think they'll be addressed at the
upcoming NPC.
Well, I mean, to be frank, I don't
really get the sense that the Chinese
government has a sense of urgency. I
mean, I think their assessment is, as
you said,
there are issues in the economy. Um,
the shakeout from the property sector, I
think has taken longer than they would
have ideally liked. So, you still have
the deflationary impact of the the
property contraction, etc.
You know, they are concerned about
excessive competition, or excess supply
in a lot of manufacturing sectors, and
they're they're trying to address that.
Um, but there's not a high sense of
urgency. Um,
and you know, the other thing obviously
they they could be quite concerned about
is what we've seen in the Middle East.
What does that mean for China's imported
energy supplies? Um,
and even there,
I I think the evidence is that they
prepared for this quite well. They've
stockpiled huge amounts of oil. They
probably also have some natural gas
stockpiled. So,
they're pretty well secured against both
the crises, the geopolitical crises of
the moment, and the longer term
of the economy. So, they seem to be
basically pretty patient
and taking the view that look, we're
making investments in the tech-intensive
manufacturing sector for the long term,
the next 10-20 years.
Maybe this will take some time to to pay
off, but we're willing to make those
investments, and if we have to suffer
somewhat lower growth and some deflation
in the short term, so be it. Uh so, I
don't really get a sense that the
government thinks that there are urgent
problems that they need to work really,
really hard to correct. They're more
sort of management problems.
Yeah, you mentioned about trade. I mean,
Arthur, we'll have this big meeting
between Presidents Trump and Xi in just
a few weeks, and just adding to the
whole Iran situation does add to the
complexity of what they might discuss.
I'm just wondering
what what are your expectations? Is
there, you know,
anything beyond just what we saw in APEC
in South Korea, the truce there? Could
we see anything more than what was
achieved there?
Right. Well, I think there are two
questions. The first question,
obviously, is given what's going on in
Iran right now, is the meeting going to
take place? And I think some people had
some questions about that.
My sense is that um the Chinese really
want this meeting to occur. They they
place a large value on stabilizing the
relationship with the United States.
Um
their relationship with Iran is
fundamentally pretty transactional. They
don't have a lot invested there, so my
expectation is that despite the the
drama there, the Chinese will
choose to go ahead with this meeting.
And then, the second question is what do
we get out of it? I think from the
Chinese standpoint, they would be happy
for, you know, some stabilization of the
relationship, an extension of the
truce, the reduction of tariffs.
Obviously, that's a lot easier now that
the Supreme Court has ruled that a lot
of these tariffs on China are illegal.
So the Chinese negotiating position on
that has improved quite a lot.
And again, from the Trump
administration, I don't really get the
sense that the ambitions are very high.
They again, I think from Trump's
perspective, he doesn't see that the any
conflict with China will serve him well
in the midterm election campaign. So he
just wants a stable relationship. I
think he would want some more
commitments on
Chinese sales of rare earth elements and
other critical minerals to the US. So
they'll be pushing pretty hard for that.
But for the most part, I think we're
just going to see an extension of the
truce. The most interesting thing to
watch will be whether they can make any
progress on creating a framework for
increased Chinese investment in the
United States. I think that's something
the Chinese would like.
Politically very difficult to pull off
in the US.
So I think real questions on the US side
whether Trump would go that far.
Arthur, thank you. Arthur Kroeber there,
founding partner and head of research at
financial services firm Gavekal joining
us there
from New York. Going back to the market
sell-off we've been seeing of course
some of the biggest drags we've seen has
been of course these Korean markets and
them returning back from that holiday
and you are seeing that sort of catch
down story with Samsung with SK Hynix.
Both down some 5%. Toyota
also is down another 5% here today.
Certainly there's going to be a lot of
questions on why you know we're not
seeing that sort of dip buying.
Let's bring in our Lanting Tu,
our Asia equities managing editor to
join us out of Singapore for for more on
this. Yeah, we have seen things turn
quite to the negative in the last few
minutes or so. What are you hearing from
some of the sources and the like
about what what really sentiment is like
now?
Yeah, I think people are now starting to
realize that the end game for this war
is just very uncertain. Nobody doesn't
Nobody seems to know that how the end
game will be. And we saw
Howard Marks in Sydney saying the same
thing that there's just a lot of
uncertainty around this particular
matter. And last night US traders traded
the market as as if there was going to
be short-lived. And now people are
realize realizing that this view is way
too optimistic. And quite a few bearish
sort of commentary has come out and
bearish headlines also hit the wire. The
latest was that a US official says it's
impossible to strike a deal with Iran.
Again, that points to the
the issue how long this war is really
going to last. And we saw SocGen talking
about how European equities will be the
worst hit in the next six months period.
And we've got Vantage Asset Management
talking about how this war is happening
when global equity valuation is at a
very elevated level. That also means the
unwinding or the sell-off could be more
drastic. That's why we're seeing sort of
a second day of very intense selling.
You guys mentioned the Korea. And also
Taiwan is seeing a sell-off, too. So
some of the recent winners are now
seeing profit taking in a very big way.
Yeah, you mentioned the NT. European
futures were now down half of 1%. Talk
to us about
the Chinese markets because clearly
local relations do help in a situation
like this. And we're not in fact seeing
some of these benchmarks move to the
upside. I think the Hang Seng tech,
which is still in a bear market, managed
to claw back the 5,000 level.
How are you guys covering China today?
Yeah, I think there is a bit of a
dichotomy going on in China. We're
talking about mainland China and the
Hong Kong market. If you look at
mainland China, there are quite a few
beneficiaries, right? The the index
heavy energy, financial, and also
shipping companies. Uh those are sort of
the beneficiaries. Energy stocks, I
believe, did really well yesterday and
also doing very well today. Uh and
shipping, for example, Cosco Shipping
was touted by Goldman as one of the key
beneficiaries in this Middle East
conflict. But if you look at Hong Kong,
there's just the sell-off couldn't catch
a break. Again, I think we're seeing a
quite a slew of earnings coming out
soon. Bilibili would be the next one. I
think we still don't have a certain date
for Alibaba, but that's that's going to
be a milestone that everybody's watching
out for. And there is also concern that
ByteDance uh it has various advanced AI
uh uh applications and technologies.
That seems to be really leading the way
in onshore sort of AI race, which means
the likes of Baidu and Baba are seen to
be falling behind. So that seems to be a
new narrative that is playing out right
now. That's causing concern among all
these internet names listed in Hong
Kong.
Lianting, thank you so much. I know we
scrambled you to the camera right now.
We're trying to figure out, to your
point, right why markets are kicking
off.
Uh could be very very simple, as
Lianting is is is pointing to right now.
Uh our our Bloomberg video hub, by the
way, subscribers can explore live
streaming. Here's the plug. Uh news,
interviews. Check it out. bloomberg.com/
videos.
Uh welcome back and apologies if we are
just looking down here. Uh more lines
are coming through. An update coming
through out of the Middle East here. So
number one is Saudi has now said it has
intercepted
eight drones near Riyadh's uh and Al
Kharj. That's according to the Saudis.
Um we're also getting more lines coming
through on the energy space, but we're
also looking at of course developments
in the US Embassy in Riyadh, which was
attacked of course by drones, I
understand. Yeah, so hence you you had
that kind of shelter-in-place sort of
alert that came through just the last
hour or two or or so. So uh that
certainly is still a key concern. I
think that's why you are seeing risk
assets on offer once again here in
exchange to clients that we saw
yesterday. Uh there also is that sort of
gas and energy story which continues to
receive gas prices and and oil prices
quite elevated here in the Asia session.
You are hearing more from some of these
Asia uh nations about the how are they
securing alternative LNG supplies. So in
the last couple minutes South Korea
saying that they are seeking alternative
LNG supplies after this Qatar halt uh in
production here. Also we're hearing from
uh the Philippines saying that
right now they are having sufficient oil
supply. So uh certainly when you take a
look at what we saw when when you know
gas prices yesterday in Europe, we'll
see how Europe does when they wake up
this morning, whether we see another
round of this, but um yes, it it brought
us back to to levels that we saw maybe
or moves that we saw 4 years ago, but uh
when you talk about the impact that the
Russia-Ukraine war had on on energy, I
think was much bigger. And and and our
columnist Javier Blas has a great column
out saying that maybe that the hit to
LNG uh will be short-lived because it
you know it seems like you know Asian
nations are a little bit more well
prepared this time around. More
diversified? You take a look at China
for example, right? They are the biggest
importer of LNG, but they can switch to
coal, he says. They can switch to
hydropower, solar if need be. Um South
Korea might be another sort of problem,
but then again, you have Japan that's
also helping in terms of the power
generation and like. So yeah, there are
maybe more alternatives this time
around. Well, yeah, to to your point in
the Koreans, right? They might be
standing out as far as the the pain
point is concerned. Um okay. Uh well,
that really goes nicely into this next
discussion in terms of the Chinese angle
and really the stance as it pertains to
what's happening in in in in in the
Middle East. So, you have the Foreign
Minister Wang Yi calling on Iran to pay
more attention really to the reasonable
concerns of its neighbors. It's after of
course retaliation coming on the part of
Iran against US and Israeli attacks
included strikes
on Qatar, the UAE,
and Saudi Arabia. The ministry says Wang
spoke by phone with his Iranian
counterpart Abbas Aragchi reaffirming
China's support for Iran's sovereignty
and territorial integrity. Yeah, let's
bring in our Bloomberg opinion columnist
Karishma Vaswani saying that, you know,
Beijing's muted response to the Iran
conflict is a signal that it can manage
any leadership shake-up as long as the
oil keeps flowing. She joins us now from
Singapore. Karishma, great to have you
on the program. You argue that China
sees Iran as a transactional partner,
not an ally. What do you think of
Beijing's muted response first and
foremost? And what does it tell us about
the broader strategic play here?
Yeah, you know, Yvonne, in my research
for this column, somebody suggested that
China's strategy right now is akin to an
ancient Chinese military phrase, "When
two tigers are fighting it out, it's
better to sit on a mountain and wait and
watch." And I think that's something
that President Xi Jinping must be
thinking about quite keenly right now. I
mean, I think we should be really clear
as well that the energy supply issues
are of course a problem for China. I
think that caveat needs to be made, but
as you pointed out from my colleague
Javier Blas's column, both in terms of
conventional energy as well as LNG,
these are issues that can be mitigated.
And fundamentally, the way that Beijing
operates and looks at relationships is
transactional. It's about securing
economic and strategic interests. It
doesn't think of alliances the way you
would think of an American foreign
policy, you know, with regards to sort
of military guarantees or security
guarantees.
You know, any any suggestion that there
would be some sort of swooping in by the
Chinese to rescue Iranian clerics or for
that matter of Venezuela's Nicolas
Maduro earlier in the year. I mean, that
simply just is a misunderstanding of how
China operates. Instead, what we have
seen this time round as well as during
the
conflict last year between Iran and
Israel are statements, official
statements calling out what China
believes to be a violation of
international law, as well as the fact
that it wants Iran, I think this is
particularly interesting, to exercise
restraint while recognizing that there
have been severe violations of
international law at play. But, I think
that underlines the game that China is
playing in the situation and the
interests at stake.
Uh
Karishma, you also, I think, outlined
the rationale behind if, you know, the
Beijing could
stand to gain if Washington gets drawn
into, of course, their attention into
the Middle East, attention, resources,
and what have you. What kind of opening
do you think that might create for China
and how quickly do you think it could,
well, separate separate question, take
advantage of that opening?
Well, I think, you know, to look at this
in sort of a binary, China's winning or
China's losing is, um, again, it's sort
of a
lacks the kind of nuance that we need
for this situation. I think a better way
to frame this is to look at what China
cares most about. And in this situation,
it's Taiwan, right, David? We've got
that Trump summit with Xi Jinping
expected at the end of the month. On the
table, of course, is the extension of
the trade truce that the two sides
struck last year. Xi Jinping will not
want Iran to become a distraction or in
any way a new flashpoint between the US
and China, and Taiwan is the key issue
for him in terms of his political
legacy. Now, if the US continues to be
distracted in the Middle East, what that
means for China is that it can continue
to gradually, with the way that it's
been doing in the last several years,
with its gray zone exercises in the
Taiwan Strait and in the South China
Sea. A distracted United States is a
very useful opportunity for Beijing.
Krishma, thank you, Krishma Vaswani,
Bloomberg Opinion columnist. Make sure
to check out her column here this
morning. And subscribers can get more on
the Iran conflict as well in today's Big
Take as Trump's move ushers in an era of
unrestrained US power. For terminal
clients, the function is NI Big Take.
It's also available on the website
bloomberg.com. Okay. So, we're looking
at markets before we wrap up the show,
and I think there's been an emerging
theme that's come up, surfaced in the
last
uh hour or so, and that uh policymakers
this part of the world are trying to
game out scenarios. If energy prices
continue to go up and remain elevated,
what offsets can they offer? So, as far
as the Aussies are concerned, we've
talked about the RBA and a policy
switch. The Philippines is also coming
out. This is out of the president
talking about how if oil exceeds 80
bucks a barrel, they're eyeing a
potential cut to excise taxes to then
uh blunt the blow of higher energy
prices and not see that feed through
into inflation into the broader consumer
there. Yeah, and then just adds into
sort of the inflation fears that we're
seeing across these markets here right
now. When you're talking about, you
know,
a US administration that is really
unclear about the timeline of, you know,
how long this conflict is going to last.
Is it going to be 4 to 5 weeks? Is it
It's not going to be endless, but what
does that even mean at this point? I
think there is, you know, you're seeing
Asian nations start to scramble here on
what they can do. Uh we talked about
China has a bit of that cushion, right?
Just given that what they have, but
other nations might not have that. So,
certainly are these sort of inflation
scares
you justified in some ways. Certainly,
there's going to be a lot of lingering
questions on that side of things. But
yes, you start to see when it comes to
Fed rate cuts and the possibility of
that, that has been pushed back
substantially in the last 24 hours.
That's it for us on the China show.
Insight with Haslinda Amin is next. Stay
with us.